README.md, before:

# Mdns

A simple [mDNS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multicast_DNS) client for device discovery on your local network.

## Installation

    1. git clone https://github.com/NationalAssociationOfRealtors/mdns.git
    2. mix do deps.get, deps.compile
    3. iex -S mix

## Server Usage
The udp server doesn't start automatically, this gives you a chance to bring up your network interface, before starting the server, especially useful when using this with Nerves. To start the server, call `Mdns.Server.start`. To handle `:a` record requests you will want to set the ip address. This can change periodically, or you may have multiple interfaces. Set or update the ip address used for query responses by calling `Mdns.Server.set_ip({192, 168, 1, 4})`.

To add a service to the server call `Mdns.Server.add_service(%Mdns.Server.Service{})` an example service might looks like this.

    Mdns.Server.add_service(%Mdns.Server.Service{
        domain: "_nerves._tcp.local",
        data: "_rosetta._tcp.local",
        ttl: 120,
        type: :ptr
    })

You can also add `:a` records so that your service is available from a web browser or pingable. In order to use the ip address set by calling `Mdns.Server.set_ip` in responses, use the `:ip` atom for the value of your data attribute in the `Mdns.Server.Service` struct.

    Mdns.Server.add_service(%Mdns.Server.Service{
        domain: "rosetta.local",
        data: :ip, #this is a special atom that uses the ip address set when calling Mdns.Server.set_ip
        ttl: 120,
        type: :a
    })

And `:txt` records as well.

    Mdns.Server.add_service(%Mdns.Server.Service{
        domain: "_nerves._tcp.local",
        data: ["id=123123", "port=8800"],
        ttl: 120,
        type: :txt
    })

To see the server and client in action run `mix test` and view the code in `test/mdns_test.exs`

Once an `:a` record has been added(with the correct ip) you should be able to run `ping rosetta.local`

    :~$ ping rosetta.local
    PING rosetta.local (192.168.1.4) 56(84) bytes of data.
    64 bytes from 192.168.1.4: icmp_seq=1 ttl=64 time=0.279 ms
    64 bytes from 192.168.1.4: icmp_seq=2 ttl=64 time=0.261 ms
    64 bytes from 192.168.1.4: icmp_seq=3 ttl=64 time=0.329 ms
    64 bytes from 192.168.1.4: icmp_seq=4 ttl=64 time=0.270 ms
    64 bytes from 192.168.1.4: icmp_seq=5 ttl=64 time=0.227 ms
    64 bytes from 192.168.1.4: icmp_seq=6 ttl=64 time=0.215 ms
    ^C
    --- rosetta.local ping statistics ---
    6 packets transmitted, 6 received, 0% packet loss, time 4998ms
    rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 0.215/0.263/0.329/0.040 ms


## Client Usage
Start the client by calling `Mdns.Client.start`, again, this gives the system an oppurtunity to bring up the network interface. To discover a device in a namespace call `Mdns.Client.query(namespace \\ "_services._dns-sd._udp.local")`. Compliant devices will respond with a DNS response. `Mdns.Client` will notify the event bus, available at `Mdns.Events`, of any devices it finds. You can add an event handler by calling `Mdns.EventManager.add_handler`. See `Mdns.Handler` for an example event handler.

Calling `Mdns.Client.query("_googlecast._tcp.local")`

assuming you have a Chromecast on your network, an event is broadcast on `Mdns.Events` that looks like this

    {:"_googlecast._tcp.local",
        %Mdns.Client.Device{
            domain: "CRT-Labs.local",
            ip: {192, 168, 1, 138},
            payload: %{
                "bs" => "FA8FCA79C426",
                "ca" => "4101",
                "fn" => "CRT-Labs",
                "ic" => "/setup/icon.png",
                "id" => "e0617de7e2df63476fab257c8327ef3b",
                "md" => "Chromecast",
                "rm" => "E81C9A486980AA48",
                "rs" => "",
                "st" => "0",
                "ve" => "05"
            },
            services: [
                "CRT-Labs._googlecast._tcp.local"
            ]
        }
    }

After calling `Mdns.Client.query("_ssh._tcp.local")` in addition to the Chromecast call above, `Mdns.Client.devices` will return a devices map similar to this. Assuming you have a device on the network that supports `ssh`.

    %{"_googlecast._tcp.local": [
            %Mdns.Client.Device{
                domain: "CRT-Labs.local",
                ip: {192, 168, 1, 138},
                payload: %{
                    "bs" => "FA8FCA79C426",
                    "ca" => "4101",
                    "fn" => "CRT-Labs",
                    "ic" => "/setup/icon.png",
                    "id" => "e0617de7e2df63476fab257c8327ef3b",
                    "md" => "Chromecast",
                    "rm" => "E81C9A486980AA48",
                    "rs" => "",
                    "st" => "0",
                    "ve" => "05"
                },
                services: [
                    "CRT-Labs._googlecast._tcp.local"
                ]
            }
        ],
        "_ssh._tcp.local": [
            %Mdns.Client.Device{
                domain: "pc-6105006P.local",
                ip: {192, 168, 1, 26},
                payload: nil,
                services: [
                    "pc-6105006P._ssh._tcp.local"
                ]
            }
        ],
        other: []
    }

Commit message:

removes GenEvent and uses Registry instead, update docs, push to 1.0.0

README.md, after:

# Mdns

A simple [mDNS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multicast_DNS) client for device discovery on your local network.

## Installation

    1. git clone https://github.com/NationalAssociationOfRealtors/mdns.git
    2. mix do deps.get, deps.compile
    3. iex -S mix

## Server Usage
The udp server doesn't start automatically, this gives you a chance to bring up your network interface, before starting the server, especially useful when using this with Nerves. To start the server, call `Mdns.Server.start`. To handle `:a` record requests you will want to set the ip address. This can change periodically, or you may have multiple interfaces. Set or update the ip address used for query responses by calling `Mdns.Server.set_ip({192, 168, 1, 4})`.

To add a service to the server call `Mdns.Server.add_service(%Mdns.Server.Service{})` an example service might looks like this.

    Mdns.Server.add_service(%Mdns.Server.Service{
        domain: "nerves.local",
        data: "_rosetta._tcp.local",
        ttl: 120,
        type: :ptr
    })

You can also add `:a` records so that your service is available from a web browser or pingable. In order to use the ip address set by calling `Mdns.Server.set_ip` in responses, use the `:ip` atom for the value of your data attribute in the `Mdns.Server.Service` struct.

    Mdns.Server.add_service(%Mdns.Server.Service{
        domain: "rosetta.local",
        data: :ip, #this is a special atom that uses the ip address set when calling Mdns.Server.set_ip
        ttl: 120,
        type: :a
    })

And `:txt` records as well.

    Mdns.Server.add_service(%Mdns.Server.Service{
        domain: "_nerves._tcp.local",
        data: ["id=123123", "port=8800"],
        ttl: 120,
        type: :txt
    })

To see the server and client in action run `mix test` and view the code in `test/mdns_test.exs`

Once an `:a` record has been added(with the correct ip) you should be able to run `ping rosetta.local`

    :~$ ping rosetta.local
    PING rosetta.local (192.168.1.4) 56(84) bytes of data.
    64 bytes from 192.168.1.4: icmp_seq=1 ttl=64 time=0.279 ms
    64 bytes from 192.168.1.4: icmp_seq=2 ttl=64 time=0.261 ms
    64 bytes from 192.168.1.4: icmp_seq=3 ttl=64 time=0.329 ms
    64 bytes from 192.168.1.4: icmp_seq=4 ttl=64 time=0.270 ms
    64 bytes from 192.168.1.4: icmp_seq=5 ttl=64 time=0.227 ms
    64 bytes from 192.168.1.4: icmp_seq=6 ttl=64 time=0.215 ms
    ^C
    --- rosetta.local ping statistics ---
    6 packets transmitted, 6 received, 0% packet loss, time 4998ms
    rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 0.215/0.263/0.329/0.040 ms


## Client Usage
Start the client by calling `Mdns.Client.start`, again, this gives the system an opportunity to bring up the network interface. To discover a device in a namespace call `Mdns.Client.query(namespace \\ "_services._dns-sd._udp.local")`. Compliant devices will respond with a DNS response. `Mdns.Client` will send notify the Mdns `Registry`  You can add an event handler by calling `Mdns.EventManager.add_handler` or `Mdns.EventManager.register`. This will send a message to the process that called `Mdns.EventManager.add_handler` or `Mdns.EventManager.register`. You should handle this message in a `handle_info` callback.

Calling `Mdns.Client.query("_googlecast._tcp.local")`

assuming you have a Chromecast on your network, an event is broadcast that looks like this

    {:"_googlecast._tcp.local",
        %Mdns.Client.Device{
            domain: "CRT-Labs.local",
            ip: {192, 168, 1, 138},
            payload: %{
                "bs" => "FA8FCA79C426",
                "ca" => "4101",
                "fn" => "CRT-Labs",
                "ic" => "/setup/icon.png",
                "id" => "e0617de7e2df63476fab257c8327ef3b",
                "md" => "Chromecast",
                "rm" => "E81C9A486980AA48",
                "rs" => "",
                "st" => "0",
                "ve" => "05"
            },
            services: [
                "CRT-Labs._googlecast._tcp.local"
            ]
        }
    }

After calling `Mdns.Client.query("_ssh._tcp.local")` in addition to the Chromecast call above, `Mdns.Client.devices` will return a devices map similar to this. Assuming you have a device on the network that supports `ssh`.

    %{"_googlecast._tcp.local": [
            %Mdns.Client.Device{
                domain: "CRT-Labs.local",
                ip: {192, 168, 1, 138},
                payload: %{
                    "bs" => "FA8FCA79C426",
                    "ca" => "4101",
                    "fn" => "CRT-Labs",
                    "ic" => "/setup/icon.png",
                    "id" => "e0617de7e2df63476fab257c8327ef3b",
                    "md" => "Chromecast",
                    "rm" => "E81C9A486980AA48",
                    "rs" => "",
                    "st" => "0",
                    "ve" => "05"
                },
                services: [
                    "CRT-Labs._googlecast._tcp.local"
                ]
            }
        ],
        "_ssh._tcp.local": [
            %Mdns.Client.Device{
                domain: "pc-6105006P.local",
                ip: {192, 168, 1, 26},
                payload: nil,
                services: [
                    "pc-6105006P._ssh._tcp.local"
                ]
            }
        ],
        other: []
    }
